README.md, before:

# Migration script to migrate my Owncloud deployment to the official Docker image

- This script was a quick and dirty fix for my Owncloud migration needs. It should work for most standard single server Community Edition deployments, but your mileage may vary. No guarantee is provided.
- If you have an Enterprise or CE system that has custom elements to its deployment or configuration, it is very likely you will have to customize some parts of this to make it working for you.
- This script was used and tested using the *root* user. If you are using a different user to manage your Docker Swarm, you migth need to modify the script in some places.

## Prerequisites

- This migration script will only work if you are using *MySQL* or *MariaDb* as your Owncloud database backend.
- The official Owncloud Docker image expects a volume mounted at `/mnt/data` inside the container. Owncloud files data should be located in `/mnt/data/files`\*. Hence, you need to migrate your files data from its current location to `/mnt/data`, **before** you can start the migration. For instance, I have migrated the contents of `/var/www/owncloud/data` into `/mnt/data/files`. You should follow the [official documentation](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/admin_manual/maintenance/manually-moving-data-folders.html) for moving the data.
- [Create a backup](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/10.2/admin_manual/maintenance/backup.html#backing-up-the-config-and-data-directories) of the current Owncloud `data` and `config` directories.
- [Create a backup](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/10.2/admin_manual/maintenance/backup.html#backup-database) of the Owncloud database.
- Initialize the target [Docker Swarm](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/part4/).

\* Actually, there are two environment variables `OWNCLOUD_VOLUME_ROOT` and `OWNCLOUD_VOLUME_FILES` existing inside the [Owncloud container](https://github.com/owncloud-docker/base/blob/master/rootfs/etc/entrypoint.d/50-folders.sh), where the Owncloud root and file data paths are read from. However, most existing Owncloud deployments are running with `/var/www/owncloud` being the root for the deployment. This is a problem, as mounting the data volume to `/var/www/owncloud` inside the container would mask the files already existing there.

## This is what the script does on a high level

01. You need to provide the absolute path to the root directory of your current Owncloud deployment. The script needs this in order to extract information from the configuration file `config.php`.
02. The script checks if your current database backend for Owncloud is one of *MariaDB* or *MySQL*.
03. The script checks if your Owncloud files data is found at `/mnt/data/files` or not.
04. The script checks if your Docker Swarm is initialized.
05. You need to pick one domain name for the Owncloud service from your current configuration. (The official image only supports one domain name.)
06. You need to provide a port number, that should be used for the Owncloud service.
07. The script downloads the `docker-compose.yml` file from this project.
08. The script exports the environment variables used to fill in the placeholders in `docker-compose.yml`.
09. The script deploys the stack on *Docker Swarm*.
10. Once the Owncloud service has stabilized, the script turns on *maintenance mode*.
11. The script copies the database backup to the MariaDB container.
12. The script restores the database backup in the MariaDB container.
13. The script copies the Owncloud file data onto the Owncloud container volume.
14. The script updates the config file secrets.
15. The script drops you into the Owncloud container shell, where you will complete the last 3 steps of the migration manually:
    - Update the file data fingerprint.
    - Run the Owncloud upgrade tool.
    - Turn maintenance mode off.

Commit message:

Add stack name update step

README.md, after:

# Migration script to migrate my Owncloud deployment to the official Docker image

- This script was a quick and dirty fix for my Owncloud migration needs. It should work for most standard single server Community Edition deployments, but your mileage may vary. No guarantee is provided.
- If you have an Enterprise or CE system that has custom elements to its deployment or configuration, it is very likely you will have to customize some parts of this to make it working for you.
- This script was used and tested using the *root* user. If you are using a different user to manage your Docker Swarm, you migth need to modify the script in some places.

## Prerequisites

- This migration script will only work if you are using *MySQL* or *MariaDb* as your Owncloud database backend.
- The official Owncloud Docker image expects a volume mounted at `/mnt/data` inside the container. Owncloud files data should be located in `/mnt/data/files`\*. Hence, you need to migrate your files data from its current location to `/mnt/data`, **before** you can start the migration. For instance, I have migrated the contents of `/var/www/owncloud/data` into `/mnt/data/files`. You should follow the [official documentation](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/admin_manual/maintenance/manually-moving-data-folders.html) for moving the data.
- [Create a backup](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/10.2/admin_manual/maintenance/backup.html#backing-up-the-config-and-data-directories) of the current Owncloud `data` and `config` directories.
- [Create a backup](https://doc.owncloud.com/server/10.2/admin_manual/maintenance/backup.html#backup-database) of the Owncloud database.
- Initialize the target [Docker Swarm](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/part4/).

\* Actually, there are two environment variables `OWNCLOUD_VOLUME_ROOT` and `OWNCLOUD_VOLUME_FILES` existing inside the [Owncloud container](https://github.com/owncloud-docker/base/blob/master/rootfs/etc/entrypoint.d/50-folders.sh), where the Owncloud root and file data paths are read from. However, most existing Owncloud deployments are running with `/var/www/owncloud` being the root for the deployment. This is a problem, as mounting the data volume to `/var/www/owncloud` inside the container would mask the files already existing there.

## This is what the script does on a high level

01. You need to provide the absolute path to the root directory of your current Owncloud deployment. The script needs this in order to extract information from the configuration file `config.php`.
02. The script checks if your current database backend for Owncloud is one of *MariaDB* or *MySQL*.
03. The script checks if your Owncloud files data is found at `/mnt/data/files` or not.
04. The script checks if your Docker Swarm is initialized.
05. You need to pick one domain name for the Owncloud service from your current configuration. (The official image only supports one domain name.)
06. You need to provide a port number, that should be used for the Owncloud service.
07. You can change the default stack name *owncloudd*.
08. The script downloads the `docker-compose.yml` file from this project.
09. The script exports the environment variables used to fill in the placeholders in `docker-compose.yml`.
10. The script deploys the stack on *Docker Swarm*.
11. Once the Owncloud service has stabilized, the script turns on *maintenance mode*.
12. The script copies the database backup to the MariaDB container.
13. The script restores the database backup in the MariaDB container.
14. The script copies the Owncloud file data onto the Owncloud container volume.
15. The script updates the config file secrets.
16. The script drops you into the Owncloud container shell, where you will complete the last 3 steps of the migration manually:
    - Update the file data fingerprint.
    - Run the Owncloud upgrade tool.
    - Turn maintenance mode off.
